Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28660

High contrast thermal deflectometry using
long-wave infrared time modulated integrating
cavity source
L OGAN R. G RAVES , 1 H ENRY Q UACH , 1 R. J OHN K OSHEL , 1
C HANG -J IN O H , 1 AND DAE W OOK K IM 1,2,*
1 James C. Wyant College of Optical Sciences, University of Arizona, 1630 E. University Blvd., Tucson, AZ

85721, USA
2 Department of Astronomy and Steward Observatory, University of Arizona, 933 N. Cherry Ave., Tucson,

AZ 85719, USA
* letter2dwk@hotmail.com

Abstract: We introduce a scalable temporally modulated long-wave infrared source design.
The design makes use of an array of resistive blackbody heating elements which radiate into
a custom aluminum integrating cavity. The output of the box is a rectangular slit, built to
match the traditional tungsten ribbon profile for an infrared deflectometry source. Temporal
modulation allows for signal isolation and improved resilience to background fluctuations in
an infrared deflectometry source. Infrared deflectometry measurements using the new source
design and a traditional tungsten ribbon, both with similar radiant flux, were compared for a
ground glass surface, an aluminum blank, and an aluminum blank under thermal load (150 °C).
Signal-to-noise ratio was ∼4 times higher for the new design and demonstrated improved source
temporal stability and geometry. Further, the new design successfully measured the previously
untestable hot aluminum flat. The new design improves infrared deflectometry and allows for
high contrast thermal deflectometry measurements of optics under thermal load.
© 2019 Optical Society of America under the terms of the OSA Open Access Publishing Agreement

1.

Introduction

As manufacturing methods continue to improve, a wider range of materials are being shaped into
custom freeform surfaces for new optical applications. These materials, which include metals,
glass, ceramics, and plastics, are turned into high performance optics using grinding and polishing
methods, computer numeric control (CNC) diamond turning, sub-aperture polishing methods, 3D
printing, and more [1–5]. To assure proper fabrication, advanced metrology technologies must
be used. This allows for monitoring and guiding of the fabrication process, and final verification
of the optical surface shape.
Typically, interferometry and deflectometry are used for high accuracy and precision metrology
of freeform optics [4–7]. Interferometry is a null metrology method, which requires using
a null optic as a reference measurement to the unit under test (UUT). For freeform optics in
particular, computer generated holograms (CGH) have become highly attractive for use as a
null optic as they can generate a freeform null and additionally can provide advanced alignment
features [8]. Unfortunately, a CGH can only null a designed specific optical configuration,
and they typically can be expensive to fabricate. Deflectometry is a non-null test method, in
a which a source presents a known pattern which specularly reflects from the UUT and is
recorded by a camera. By knowing the geometry of all components to high precision, the local
slopes of the UUT can be determined and integrated to generate a reconstructed surface map.
Particularly for extremely large optics, such as telescope optics, fabrication is typically achieved
using grinding and polishing [5,9–11]. The grinding phase of generating optics offers a unique
period during which rapid removal of material is performed, allowing for faster convergence to

#369651
Journal © 2019

https://doi.org/10.1364/OE.27.028660
Received 12 Jun 2019; revised 10 Sep 2019; accepted 11 Sep 2019; published 23 Sep 2019

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28661

the final desired surface shape, with removal rates being up to thousands of times faster than
during polishing. During this period, the optical root mean square (RMS) surface roughness
can range from hundreds of microns down to 1 micrometer, and the surface shape can change
significantly. The rough surface is not specularly reflective to visible wavelengths, making
measurements challenging. Utilizing an infrared system is a desirable solution to grinding phase
metrology as the rough surface will be specularly reflective at longer wavelengths. While infrared
interferometers exist which could achieve this measurement [12], the rapidly changing surface
shape during the grinding phase requires equally rapidly changing custom null optics. Instead,
deflectometry has been used with an infrared source to measure such rough surfaces [7,13].
A key challenge in designing infrared deflectometry systems is in the choice of a thermal
source. Ideally, a deflectometry source will provide a high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for the
system, while having high spatial modulation accuracy and capabilities and excellent stability.
One possible source design is to apply current to a thin tungsten ribbon, which induces joule
heating and creates a rectangular, pseudo-blackbody emitting source. By scanning the ribbon in
orthogonal directions, a line scanning source is created. This ribbon design formed the basis for
the scanning long-wave optical test system, SLOTS (Scanning Long-wave Optical Test System),
which has been used extensively in infrared deflectometry, and the tungsten ribbon source, with
minor variations, is still the traditional source used for infrared deflectometry [7,14]. However, a
tungsten ribbon has some significant limitations when applied to deflectometry.
In a deflectometry system, any uncertainty in the shape and position of all components directly
reduces the accuracy in the final optical surface reconstruction. For a tungsten ribbon, low order
bending modes frequently occur, particularly as the ribbon experiences thermal gradients and
load. Thus, the idealized flat rectangular shape of the ribbon, used for data processing and surface
reconstruction of deflectometry data measurements, may be incorrect and can lead to surface
reconstruction errors. Further, the source output is assumed to be uniform across the ribbon,
and stable over the testing period. However, cyclically heated tungsten evaporates and degrades
with use over time, leading to a potentially non-uniform emission profile across the surface. This
is coupled with the challenge that the ribbon’s power draw and emission may fluctuate with
time. One final consideration is the limit to how much output power can be achieved with a
ribbon source. Because the ribbon acts as a pseudo-blackbody source, increasing the available
input power may raise the signal power, but will also shift the output spectrum towards shorter
wavelengths, away from the desirable longer wavelength. Above a certain threshold, however,
the load will be too great for the ribbon to handle, leading to a failure in the source. These
comments are not meant to diminish the impact the tungsten ribbon design had on infrared
deflectometry specifically, and metrology generally. Without the introduction of the tungsten
ribbon source, high accuracy, rapid and efficient in-situ testing of diffuse optics was challenging,
time consuming, and extremely expensive. Instead, these known limitations to the tungsten
ribbon lay out a clear framework of considerations that must be addressed to produce an improved
infrared deflectometry system at the source level.
We have created a new source design which addresses these prior limitations and opens a new
region of infrared deflectometry testing. The source is a Long-wave Infrared Time Modulated
Integrating cavity Source (LITMIS), which uses modular high efficiency and high stability
resistive membrane blackbody elements. Due to the modular design, the number of elements,
referred to as ‘caps’, inputting radiation into the integrating cavity are readily scalable. The
light is output via a machined slit (or any other desired light source pattern geometry), whose
geometry is stable and known to high precision machining accuracy. Finally, a key feature of
the LITMIS design is the ability to temporarily modulate the source at up to 1 Hz, providing
a time-modulated signal, which allows for isolation of the signal from the background noise.
The new source was modeled and optimized using illumination design software, and the final
optimized design was built and used to measure a diffuse glass and an aluminum blank surface.

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28662

A comparison was made using a traditional deflectometry tungsten ribbon source, whose shape
was identical to the exit slit of the box, using the same setup and camera. This allowed for
unbiased direct comparison of the two sources. Finally, an aluminum flat under high thermal
load, which has historically been unmeasurable using a traditional source due to the low contrast
signal for infrared deflectometry and fluctuating background noise, was successfully measured to
demonstrate and confirm the high contrast thermal deflectometry performance when utilizing the
LITMIS source.
2.

Background theory

2.1.

Deflectometry

Deflectometry represents a non-null optical metrology method which can, using careful calibration,
produce highly accurate surface reconstruction of optics. The metrology method measures
the local slope distribution of a unit under test (UUT), and these local slopes are integrated
in post-processing to reconstruct the surface map. With proper calibration, deflectometry can
provide surface measurements with an accuracy comparable to interferometry [15].
Due to the non-null nature of the test, deflectometry can measure a wide dynamic range of
surface slopes. The key limiting factors in a deflectometry test for what is measurable are defined
by the source size, the camera field of view (FOV), and whether the tested UUT surface can
reflect the light emitted from the source. For an area on the UUT to be testable it must be in the
FOV of the camera. Further, by tracing a ray from the camera to any point on the mirror, the
ray, following the law of reflection, must then after deflection intercept some point on the source
area. This assures that the extent of the source is great enough to fully measure the UUT surface,
although techniques exist to assure this can be satisfied for most any surface [16]. Finally, the
light emitted from the source must be specularly reflected from the surface of the UUT.
In most deflectometry setups, a high-resolution camera with a well-defined entrance pupil
location is used, with the camera entrance pupil location referred to as c(x,y,z). The camera
is focused onto the UUT surface, such that the camera pixels are mapped to the UUT surface
and represent discrete ‘mirror pixels’, referred to as u(x,y,z), over which the local slopes will be
calculated. Ideally, the source for a deflectometry setup, referred to as s(x,y,z), has well defined
spatial emittance, allowing for accurate knowledge of the geometry and has high repeatability
and stability. Additionally, it is advantageous to have a source with high signal power, which
provides the test system with a high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). For every camera pixel, the
precise location on the source that successfully illuminates the camera pixel is determined during
the measurement. Using the ray start location at the source, the end location at the camera, and
the intercept location at the mirror pixel, the local slope at the mirror pixel can be determined.
This process is extended to all pixels to measure the local slopes at all mirror pixels on the UUT
in orthogonal directions, referred to as SX (x,y,z) and SY (x,y,z), representing the x and y slopes
respectively. These slope maps are integrated, typically done using a zonal integration method
such as Southwell integration [17] or a modal integration such as using a gradient Chebyshev
polynomial set [18], resulting in a reconstructed surface map. Figure 1 demonstrates a standard
deflectometry setup and the model used for local slope calculation.
Uncertainty in the location of any components in the system will reduce the accuracy of the
local slope calculations, and thus the surface reconstruction. Therefore, it is critical to know the
exact position and geometry of all components to a high degree of certainty. While this is readily
accomplished for the camera, using calibration and measurement methods such as a coordinate
measurement machine (CMM) or even a laser tracker, for the source it can be more challenging,
as the source is significantly larger than the camera pupil and, in a scanning source design, will
have additional mechanical uncertainties. Further, the source emission uniformity and stability
are extremely important, as any uncertainty in the source behavior with degrade local slope
calculations [14,19]. These issues are readily addressed in visible deflectometry systems, which

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28663

Fig. 1. A traditional deflectometry system relies on a source, s(x,y,z), which emits light
with a well-known spatial definition. Some of the light rays, defined as vectors ®v(x,y,z),
successfully deflect from the UUT, u(x,y,z), and are captured by a camera, c(x,y,z), whose
entrance pupil location, p(x,y,z), is well known. Typically, the source and camera are placed
as near to the center of curvature (C.C.) as possible to approach a one-to-one imaging
scenario, as shown in (a). By knowing the precise coordinates of the ray origin at the source,
the ray intercept at the UUT, and the ray end at the camera, a local slope at the ray intercept
can be determined in the x and y directions, referred to as Sx and SY respectively. The local
surface normal vector n® with Sx is shown for the local x slope case (b).

benefit from the use of high resolution, high performance digital displays. However, for infrared
deflectometry, the problem becomes more challenging.
2.2.

Infrared deflectometry

Infrared deflectometry extends deflectometry to measuring diffuse rough optics which are
challenging to measure using traditional techniques. There exists a wide range of materials
which do not specularly reflect visible light, thus, thermal infrared deflectometry is an important
metrology tool. This is particularly true during the grinding phase of mirror fabrication, where a
rough grit is used to rapidly grind the UUT down to the final desired surface shape. During this
period the root-mean-square (RMS) surface roughness will typically drop from 1000 µm to 1 µm
as smaller grit sizes are used. For such rough surfaces, visible light is scattered and thus visible
spectrum metrology tools are inapplicable; however, infrared deflectometry has been applied
during this phase successfully for several mirror fabrication projects, including the Daniel K.
Inouye Solar Telescope (DKIST) primary mirror [7].
The test setup used for most infrared deflectometry systems relies on a rectangular source
which is scanned in the x and y orthogonal directions. The longer the emission wavelength of the
source, the rougher the surface that can be tested, provided the source power is high enough and
a suitable camera for the given wavelength range can be used. Traditionally, a heated tungsten
ribbon acts as the source, serving as a pseudo-blackbody element. Coupled with a long-wave
infrared (LWIR) camera, which is sensitive in the 7-14 µm range, this allows for testing 1 µm to ∼
25 µm RMS rough surfaces. This test setup has been successfully deployed and used to measure
a variety of rough, non-specularly reflecting surfaces and was able to achieve high accuracy
surface reconstruction [4,7,14,20]. It should be noted that other dynamic heated screen patterns,
including a scanning infrared laser and a resistor array, have successfully been used as sources
for infrared systems; however, a heated scanning ribbon still serves as the most common source
for testing large diffuse optics [21]. An example case showing the rough 4.2 m diameter off-axis
parabola DKIST primary mirror surface during testing, as well as the reflected LWIR light from

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28664

a scanning tungsten ribbon as captured by a LWIR camera for a deflectometry measurement of
the UUT are shown below in Fig. 2.

Fig. 2. After generating a mirror blank, the surface goes through a grinding process, which
rapidly converges the UUT to the desired shape. For the DKIST primary, a 4.2 m Zerodur
blank was ground from ∼100 µm down to 1 µm RMS surface roughness. During this
process, the rough surface (left) was measured using infrared deflectometry. The infrared
deflectometry system uses a scanning heated tungsten ribbon and captures reflected light in
the 7-12 µm range during the vertical scan (right), which is specularly reflected by the rough
surface. [4]

Just as with visible deflectometry, the uncertainty in all components directly affects the
accuracy of the surface reconstruction. In the LWIR region, camera choices are more limited
than the visible, with a microbolometer arrays being a common option, which typically have
large pixels than CCD or CMOS detectors. However, the diffraction limit in the LWIR region is
also approximately an order of magnitude larger than the visible spectrum, thus, the pixel pitch
is not a limiting factor. Additionally, accurate knowledge of the source shape and position can
become highly challenging if not impossible to measure, as will be explored in the next section.
Finally, the source signal as compared to the background, which broadly is captured by the
SNR, is a key characteristic of the source. All objects radiate to some extent in the infrared
region; thus, there is a large amount of background thermal radiation both in and out of scene
that contributes significantly to the noise levels during an infrared deflectometry test. Further,
the background radiation may change during the test. A simple and traditionally used pre-test
background image (or average of background images), may not always be enough to remove the
background noise during testing. This issue is especially clear when considering that the source
itself is moving during the test and may leave a thermal ‘tail’ in the air, as well as introduce a
shifting background emitter in the form of the housing hardware. The noise issue is compounded
by the fact that, for a heated metal source, there is a physical limit to how much signal output power
can be achieved before failure of the source. Lastly, the output power uniformity and stability are
highly important, as any variation during testing will skew results and impart uncertainty into the
final reconstructed surface.
3.
3.1.

High contrast deflectometry using LITMIS
Long-wave infrared time-modulated integrating cavity source

To address the previously covered limitations of a tungsten ribbon source, and to allow for novel
testing situation for infrared deflectometry, we have developed LITMIS. The source uses modular

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28665

heating elements as input radiation and has a rectangular output slit where the light is emitted,
mimicking the ribbon source dimensions for direct comparison. The cavity and emission area
are selected for comparison to a tungsten ribbon source and can be changed and optimized to
other geometries for different testing configurations. The design provides high signal output
power and temporal stability with uniform emission. Because it is a machined output slit, the
source geometry is known to a high machining precision (e.g., ∼25 µm) and remains stable over
the lifetime of the source.
LITMIS makes use of small resistive caps, which each contain an extremely thin resistive alloy
membrane that exhibits high emissivity and can cool extremely quickly [22]. Thus, the source
can be temporally modulated, achieving an 80% contrast ratio at 1 Hz. This allows for in-situ
updated background noise images during testing, as the signal output can be modulated to capture
‘background’ and ‘signal’ images during the scanning. Further, although not implemented in
this setup, a detector which provides direct signal output, and does not integrate the signal, can
be used to filter the signal in the Fourier domain to further isolate the signal from noise. This
approach is not implemented herein due to the available camera in this study.
The integrating cavity can be machined out of any material that maintains shape and diffusely
reflects the LWIR being input into the cavity. Consideration of the inner cavity dimensions
must be made to assure that the light is properly scattered by the interior surface reflections to
achieve a uniform non-directional (i.e., Lambertian) emission from the exit slit. Furthermore,
several changes to the LITMIS can be made in order to adjust desired operating performance
characteristics:
• Radiant flux: the interior of the cavity may be coated, depending on the cavity material, to
adjust the radiant flux by minimizing reflection losses, and the number of input caps can
be adjusted to scale radiant flux,
• Output spectrum: the spectral reflectance of the cavity coating and the emission spectrum
of the input caps are used to specify the output spectrum at the slit, and
• Output geometry: the emission slit geometry can be altered, although again the interior
cavity design must be properly configured to assure proper emission behavior.
With considerations towards matching the geometrical and radiometric properties of a tungsten
ribbon source, an integrating cavity source was designed and machined. The cavity is designed
with 20 input ‘cap’ sources, operating at approximately 70% maximum power. The cavity itself
is optimized to achieve both angular and spatial uniformity over a rectangular exit, while the
interior of the cavity is a box shape made of bare aluminum with a surface roughness of 3.4 µm,
measured using a Zygo NewView 8300 Interference Microscope. The design is modeled to match
a traditional tungsten ribbon source which has been used in previous infrared deflectometry
tests, [23], for comparison purposes. The matching of the slit and ribbon dimensions allows
for direct comparison of the two sources. The system is modeled in Synopsys’ LightTools, a
non-sequential ray tracing simulation software, and the location of the heating elements, as well
as interior cavity dimensions and surface roughness, are optimized to achieve spatially uniform,
Lambertian radiance over the extent of the exit slit. The output is simulated at the slit with this
radiance profile as the goal. The near field irradiance pattern, as well as the final optimized box
design, are shown below in Fig. 3.
3.2.

Comparative radiometric modeling

For the purposes of a direct comparison, the source power of the integrating cavity design is
matched to that of the tungsten ribbon. The tungsten ribbon behaves as a pseudo-blackbody
emitting source, and the radiometric equations predicting the ribbon emission are well documented
[19]. The LITMIS source can similarly be described as a pseudo-blackbody emitting source.

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28666

Fig. 3. An aluminum integrating cavity was designed and optimized to make the infrared
source, LITMIS. The cavity is designed to have 20 input source ports, where small, high
emissivity, modular and time-modulating infrared cap sources are input in the final built
box. An emission exit slit, where light exits the box, is designed to match the dimensions
of a comparison tungsten ribbon infrared source (a). The optimized design is modeled in
LightTools, where the irradiance at the surface of the box is simulated to assure high spatial
uniformity across the exit slit (b). The emission intensity as a function of output angle is
also analyzed, demonstrating high angular uniformity (c).

Further, each source features the same emission area and are linearly scanned for testing. The raw
data acquisition is from the pixel camera detector pixel response, where a centroiding process is
used to extract the peak signal response for every camera pixel as a function of source location
Thus, as all other components are identical in a system other than the sources, the goal is to
match the source radiance.
As has previously been describe [14,24,25], using the law of error propagation, when only noise
is considered, the centroid uncertainty, σ, is determined from the recorded intensity response
width, w, the number of samples taken, N, and the SNR:
σ=√

w
N SNR

=√

w

(1)

N Psig /NEP

Psig is the signal power and NEP is the noise equivalent power, which is typically the dominant
factor in an infrared deflectometry test. The centroid uncertainty, ∆s, directly relates to the slope
uncertainty as:
σ
∆s 
(2)
2Z
where Z is the distance from the source to the UUT. The signal power is determined by considering
the reflected radiance, Lref , which is scaled by the transmission of the optical components, given
by τo , that falls on the detector, whose area given by Aim . The image area is related to the source

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28667

width, wsc , and the diameter of the camera aperture, Dap . The solid angle for the pixel from the
entrance pupil must also be considered, which is defined as Ωpix , and can be calculated from the
area of a single pixel, given as Apix , and the focal length of the camera, given by f. The full signal
power equation is given as:
Psig = τo Lref Aim Ωpix = τo Lref (wsc Dap )

Apix
f2

(3)

The reflected radiance, Lref , is derived from the source radiance, Lsrc , and is scaled by the
reflectivity of the UUT, rU , and the relative reflectance due to rough surface scattering, rs . The
value is calculated according to:
Lref = rU rs Lsrce
(4)
To this point, the tungsten ribbon and the integrating cavity design share the same radiometric
considerations. The primary difference arises in the different source radiance, defined as
Lsrc−ribbon and Lsrc−cavity for the ribbon and cavity respectively. The ribbon source radiance is
given by
ε α7−14 Pribbon
(5)
Lsrce_ribbon =
πAsrce
where the total power draw, given by Pribbon , is scaled by the emissivity of the source over the
given radiation band, ε, which is 0.10 [19,26,27]. For the ribbon configuration used, the power
draw was approximately 2.1 W (2.2 A, 0.95 V), with an operating temperature of roughly 440 °C.
The portion of the total radiation in the 7-14 µm band, α7−14 , is calculated from Stefan-Boltzmann
law. Finally, the solid angle is given by π = 3.14 rad, which is the solid angle when a differential
plane source radiates towards a hemisphere and the surface area of the source, Asrc , is directly
calculated from the source geometry. The source radiance for the cavity is similar to that of the
ribbon with some minor differences. This is given by:
Lsrce_cavity = rcb

ε α7−14 N Pcap
ε α7−14 Ptot
= rcb
Ωcavity Asrce
Ωcavity Asrce

(6)

where the input power is given by the power per cap source, Pcap , which for the designed cavity
was approximately 0.35 W (23.8 V, 14 mA), with a temperature of 450 °C, and is scaled by the
total number of caps inputting energy into the cavity, N, which for the presented design was 20.
The product of these two parameters gives the total input power, Ptot . The total output radiance
from the cavity is scaled by the reflectivity of the cavity interior, rc , which for bare aluminum
at the operating temperature is approximately 0.93 [28] to the power of the average number
of bounces taken by a ray from a source cap to exiting the box, b, which for the given design
was approximately 46, as calculated in the LightTools model. Finally, the emission solid angle,
Ωcavity , is unique to the final cavity design. For the designed cavity for this manuscript, the solid
angle is given by 2.43 steradians.
It should be noted that while minor parameters differ between the source radiance definitions
for both a heated metal-based source and the LITMIS source, the most fundamental difference is
the power scalability of the LITMIS source. Blackbody sources will shift their emission spectrum
to higher energy, lower wavelengths as the input power, and thus temperature, increases. This
is non-ideal for a long-wave infrared source. Further, there is an input power threshold for all
materials, above which the material will fail. As seen in Eq. 6, the same long-wave infrared
spectrum can be maintained while adding power to the source by scaling the number of individual
emitters, which is a unique feature for the LITMIS source.
The parameter values for the as designed and manufactured LITMIS source, as well the tested
tungsten ribbon, are provided in Table 1. The specific details of the source’s implementations are
provided in later sections.

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28668

Table 1. Source Parameter Comparison between Tungsten Ribbon and LITMIS Sources
Parameter

Notation

Tungsten Ribbon

Total power consumed

Ptot

2.10

7

W

Radiation in 7-14 um band

α7−14

0.28

0.28

N/A

Source Emissivity

ε

0.10

0.90

N/A

Cavity Reflectivity

rc

N/A

0.93

N/A

Internal Ray Bounces

b

N/A

46

N/A

Source Surface Area

Asrc

1440

1440

mm2

Lsrce

1.36 × 10−5

1.78 × 10−5

W/mm2 /sr

Source Radiance

LITMIS Source

Unit

It must be noted that in the final test, the input power to the cavity and the ribbon were altered
slightly to achieve an average identical power signal on a camera pixel from both sources. This is
due to the goal of having an unbiased comparison between the two sources; the goal was not to
compare the power output from the sources, which can be significantly adjusted via engineering
choices.
4.

Experimental configuration and measurement setup

An infrared deflectometry system was assembled on an optical table. The camera featured a
∼1–2 m variable focal length germanium lens, and the detector was a microbolometer array
with 320×240 pixels (7–14 µm response, Thermal-Eye 3500AS). The exposure, gain, and level
settings were adjusted prior to testing such that the output was never saturated, and the settings
were held constant between all tests. An optical mount was situated approximately one meter
from the camera and was fixed in place and allowed for repeatable placed of the UUT. The camera
was focused on the UUT surface for deflectometry measurements and was focused on the sources
for measurements of the source properties.
For an unbiased performance comparison, the source was the only component in the system
which changed during the experimental measurements. To compare properties between source
modalities, a scanning platform was utilized with a mounting interface to interchange LWIR
sources. A motorized lead screw stage (Velmex BiSlide, Model #MN10-0350-M02-31) moved
source assemblies in the vertical direction with an absolute positional accuracy of ± 0.005 mm.
For ease of comparison, sources shared identical slit dimensions (75 × 2.5 mm) and radiant
exitance planes. Figure 4 demonstrates the camera and source setup for the test system.

Fig. 4. The infrared testing system used for all tests in this manuscript was composed of a
linear scanning source and a long-wave infrared (LWIR) Thermal-Eye 3500AS camera. The
source was mounted in a kinematic mount, allowing for repeatable interchange between a
tungsten ribbon source, as seen above, and the LITMIS source.

Research Article

4.1.

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28669

Thermal infrared source structure and setup

A LWIR thermal line source was implemented by running direct current (2.2 A, 2.1 W) across
a thin tungsten ribbon. Transient thermal noise from the wire, such as the local heating of air,
was reduced by taking measurements after the ribbon reached an equilibrium state (∼5 minutes),
closer to the environmental thermal steady-state condition.
The LITMIS source was implemented by applying a (0.29 A, 7W) load to a circuit consisting
of 20 emitters (Axetris Model: EMIRS200 T039 w/ Cap; 2 to 14 µm spectrum, ∼ 2π steradian
emission). Pointed into the enclosure, the rectangular emitter array was operated by binary
power cycling with a digitally controlled relay (Numato 1 Channel USB-Powered Relay Module).
Enclosure walls were machined from bare Al 6061-T6 and characterized to 3.4 µm RMS (Root
Mean Square) by a Zygo NewView 8300 Interference Microscope. To block excess thermal noise
from the slit source aluminum-covered “gull-wing” shields were added. Lastly, to minimize
latent thermal radiation from the cavity interior, the LITMIS source was cooled to 0° C prior to
each test by placing the source into a cooling chamber for 1 hour prior to testing. Upon removal
from the chamber the interior cavity temperature was measured to verify it had reached 0° C, and
an image verification was performed to verify that the interior cavity signal counts remained at
or below the noise levels of the camera for the duration of each test. Figure 5 demonstrates the
integrating cavity after assembly.

Fig. 5. The assembled LITMIS source was constructed from an aluminum cavity and
utilized 20 ‘cap’ input sources (a). Aluminum gull fins were added to the top of the box
during testing to shield the back end of the caps and to assure no excess emission or reflected
LWIR came from the LITMIS source (b). A direct view of the source, as captured by a LWIR
camera, shows high spatial uniformity of the signal and an ideal rectangular emission shape
(c), and when the LITMIS source is rotated about the emission slit, the same uniformity and
power output is observed (d) indicating non-directional uniform angular emission from the
exit slit.

4.2.

Unit under test for infrared deflectometry metrology

Two diffuse optics were measured with both the tungsten ribbon and the LITMIS sources. The
first optic was a 1500 grit ground glass (BK7) diffusing flat, measuring 2 inches in diameter,
referred to as Glass1500 . Second, a bare aluminum blank, measuring 3 inches in diameter was
tested in two separate configurations. The Al flat was tested at room temperature, referred to
as AlRoom , and additionally, the optic was tested under thermal load, after being heated to a
temperature of 150 °C, referred to as Al150, to simulate/model metrology of an object operating
in a high temperature environment such as an aluminum panel slumping process for a Terahertz
telescope. The heating was accomplished by placing the aluminum blank on a hot plate operating

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28670

at 150 °C for 30 minutes, at which point the surface temperature was verified as being 150 °C.
After which, it was removed from the hot plate and mounted for testing. Surface roughness of
the two optics were verified with a Zygo NewView 8300 Interference Microscope. The surface
roughness of the Glass1500 was measured as 127.89 nm RMS while the AlRoom was measured as
102.53 nm RMS. UUTs were positioned 1.35 m from the source plane. Figure 6 demonstrates the
UUTs and the surface roughness maps as measured using the white light interferometer.

Fig. 6. A 2-inch diameter rough ground glass flat referred to as Glass1500 (top left) and a
bare aluminum flat referred to as AlRoom (top right) were selected for measurement due to
their diffuse nature, making thermal infrared deflectometry an ideal metrology method. The
surface roughness of both optics was measured using a Zygo NewView 8300 Interference
Microscope. The ground glass surface featured a surface roughness of 127.89 nm RMS
while the bare aluminum surface roughness was 102.53 nm RMS over a small 834×834 µm
square area over each optic (bottom).

4.3.

Source geometry and temporal stability measurements

To measure the source emission geometry, tests were performed by recording a focused image of
each source using the LWIR camera previously described. A profile across the middle of each
source was recorded to determine how similar each true source profile was, as compared to the
assumed ideal flat top rectangular emission profile. Consequently, this allowed for verification
that the recorded signal power on the camera pixels was similar between the two sources, and
that the source area was similar on the detector for both sources.
To observe the temporal stability, a measurement was performed by focusing the camera on
each source, which was turned on and recorded for 30 minutes, separately. An image was recorded
every 10 seconds. For the test of both the tungsten ribbon source as well as the LITMIS source,
signal data was calculated over a series of pixels (50 pixels) that were imaging the source, and the
noise statistics were calculated over several random pixels (50 pixels) imaging the background
scene. Over every signal pixel the average recorded signal count, the standard deviation of the

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28671

signal, and the peak-to-valley (PV) variation of the signal count, as reported by the output from
the detector, was calculated. The mean value for the signal power, referred to as signaltime−mean ,
the mean standard deviation, referred to as signaltime−std , and the mean PV variation, referred
to as signaltime−PV , were calculated. Similarly, the average noise recorded signal over every
noise pixel, as well as the standard deviation for every noise pixel was determined. The mean
noise signal, referred to as noisetime−mean , as well as the noise standard deviation, referred to as
noisetime−td , was also calculated, and is presented in Section 5.1.
4.4.

Infrared deflectometry reconstruction and repeatability

To determine the comparative surface reconstruction repeatability, multiple optics were measured
using both tungsten ribbon and LITMIS sources. The Glass1500 and AlRoom and Al150 optics
were measured using the previously described deflectometry system and the surfaces were
reconstructed. For both setups, the source was scanned 150 mm, using 30 interval steps, in a
step and stare method. The step-and-stare method was applied, where the source is ‘stepped’
to the next scan position. Once it has reached the new position and motion is stopped, an
image capture is performed, referred to as the ‘stare’ process. UUT re-mounting and alignment
error was avoided by testing surfaces with one source first and then the other, keeping all other
system parameters identical between the comparative tests. For all surfaces, 5 measurements
were performed in succession at each step and the behavior of several locations across the UUT
were analyzed for each source. The centroids were calculated for each source configuration.
For the ribbon source, an average of 5 background images were recorded and subtracted from
all measurement images. For the LITMIS slit source, an ‘on’ (cavity emitting light) and ‘off’
(cavity not emitting light) signal was recorded at every step position, and the ‘off’ signal at each
position was subtracted from the ‘on’ measurement. After this, a standard centroiding process
was used for both source measurements. The total acquisition time for the full 5 successive
measurements of each optic was approximately 18 minutes using the tungsten ribbon source and
was approximately 20 minutes using the LITMIS slit source.
The repeatability of the source reconstruction was determined by calculating the statistics
across the repeated measurements. Across five repeat measurements the recorded peak signal
response as well as the standard deviation between measurements of the peak signal response,
referred to as signalmean and signalstd respectively, were determined for the camera pixels imaging
the UUT. Additionally, the mean peak signal response and standard deviation across the repeat
measurements, referred to as noisemean and noisestd respectively, were determined for the camera
pixels imaging the background, which represents the noise statistics. The mean signal-to-noise
ratio was then determined. Finally, the data for every measurement set was processed and the
source coordinate that illuminated every camera pixel imaging the UUT was determined via
a standard centroiding process. The mean centroiding uncertainty of the source across the 5
repeated measurements, referred to as δmean in Table 3.
Taking the processed data, the surface of each optic was reconstructed for every measurement
for both sources. Standard Zernike terms were fit to the reconstructed maps, and, after removing
terms 1 to 37, the maps were compared. The reconstruction repeatability was analyzed. The
results of all tests are detailed in Section 5.2.
5.
5.1.

Experimental data analysis and result
Source geometry and temporal stability measurements results

The recorded source images the tungsten ribbon and LITMIS sources, captured with the test
system LWIR focused through a flat precision mirror onto the source planes, as well as the signal
profile across the midline, are shown in Fig. 7.

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28672

Fig. 7. The source geometry and uniformity are a critical performance defining parameter in
a deflectometry system. For the designed infrared deflectometry test system, and image of the
tungsten ribbon (a) as well as the LITMIS slit (b) sources was captured using Thermal-Eye
3500AS camera through focused onto the source through a flat mirror. Observing a profile
of the source for the tungsten ribbon (c) and the LITMIS slit (d) sources, it is seen that the
average signal power is similar, but the source profile geometries are quite different, where
both should ideally form a flat top rectangular shape with roll-on and roll-off at the edges
due to the convolution of the rectangular source with the circular camera pupil.

The average source signal for both the LITMIS and tungsten ribbon sources, calculated over
50 pixels imaging the source, over a 30-minute period with an image capture every 10 seconds is
plotted in Fig. 8.
The results of the source temporal stability measurements are reported and summarized in
Table 2. The time averaged camera signal of both sources, referred to as signaltime−mean , was
calculated to verify the signal power, as recorded by the camera, was similar for both sources.
Further, the standard deviation of the source signal over time, referred to as signaltime−std , is also
reported, as is the peak-to-valley signal variation over the 30-minute measurement period, referred
to as signaltime−PV . The time averaged background noise signal and the standard deviation of the
noise signal over the 30-minute measurement period is reported for both sources, referred to as
noisetime−mean and noisetime−std respectively.
Table 2. Temporal Stability Comparison between Tungsten Ribbon and LITMIS Slit Sources
Source

signaltime−mean
(A.U.)

signaltime−std
(A.U.)

signaltime−PV
(A.U.)

noisetime−mean
(A.U.)

noisetime−std
(A.U.)

Tungsten Ribbon

95.72

1.97

11.10

72.39

0.45

LITMIS Slit

93.21

0.53

1.82

73.32

0.43

The source image showed similar camera signal readout for both sources, which implies the
source radiance for both the LITMIS and tungsten ribbon sources was similar, as designed.
However, observing the profile of the sources, the tungsten ribbon source has a peak signal in

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28673

Fig. 8. High temporal stability is essential for a deflectometry source, as any fluctuations
in the radiant flux directly impacts the recorded power by the camera pixels, which leads
to reconstruction error. Over a 30-minute period, with samples taken every 10 seconds,
the camera detector pixel signal of the tungsten ribbon source (dashed black line) and the
LITMIS slit (solid blue line) were recorded, to determine temporal stability of both sources.

the middle of the ribbon, which decays towards the edges, while the LITMIS source has a more
rectangular emission pattern. The tungsten ribbon deviation from the ideal rectangular pattern is
expected as the boundary conditions and material wear will cause the emission pattern to change
from ideal. It must be noted that some of the shape deviation from an ideal rectangular shape is
due to the limited camera resolution in the test setup, however.
The temporal stability results suggest again that while the average peak signals from both
sources are similar, the temporal stability over time is highly different. At a peak mean power
of ∼95 signal counts on the camera, the tungsten ribbon fluctuated rapidly and randomly ∼ 2
camera signal counts, or 2% of the signal power. Further, the peak-to-valley fluctuation at times
reached 11 signal counts. The LITMIS slit source had a mean peak power of ∼93 signal counts,
fluctuating with a standard deviation of ∼0.50 signal counts, or 0.5% of the signal power. The
peak-to-valley fluctuation was 1.82 counts. In both test cases, the background noise, which is a
combination of background radiation and camera noise, fluctuated with a standard deviation of
∼0.4 signal counts on the camera. This confirms the superb stability and uniform slit emission
geometry of the LITMIS-based solution.
5.2.

UUT reconstruction and deflectometry signal repeatability results

The reconstructed surface topology maps of the 2-inch diameter 1500 grit ground glass surface,
referred to as Glass1500 , as well as the 3-inch diameter aluminum blank tested at room temperature
and under a thermal load after being raised to a temperature of 150 °C, referred to as AlRoom and
Al150 respectively are shown in Fig. 9. All surfaces were measured using the same deflectometry
system with both the traditional tungsten ribbon source and the LITMIS slit source. The surface
roughness was determined by removing Standard Zernike terms 1 to 37 from all surface maps to
observe the mid-to-high spatial frequency surface shape terms.
The surface shape error of the Glass1500 reconstructed surface was 156.63 nm RMS when tested
with the LITMIS source and was 132.33 nm RMS when using the traditional tungsten ribbon
source. The surface roughness of the AlRoom reconstructed surface was 93.78 nm RMS when
measured using the LITMIS source and was 95.63 nm RMS when measured using the tungsten
ribbon. The Al150 surface was not measurable when using the tungsten ribbon due to the high

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28674

Fig. 9. Using both a traditional tungsten ribbon source (top row) and the LITMIS source
(bottom row), infrared deflectometry measurements were taken and the surface reconstructed
for the Glass1500 optic (left column), the AlRoom optic (middle column), and the Al150 optic
(right column). For all maps, Standard Zernike terms 1:37 were removed to observe the
surface mid-to-high spatial frequency topology.

thermal background noise from the heated UUT itself. However, due to the high contrasts signal
via the time modulations of LITMIS slit source, the surface shape was successfully measured
with the LITMIS source with a value of 106.65 nm RMS.
The signal from one pixel measuring the AlRoom surface during the five repeat measurements
using the LITMIS source, as well as the average signal response is shown in Fig. 10. The mean
peak signal response and the standard deviation of the peak signal response, as well as the mean
peak background noise and standard deviation of the noise across the five measurements is also
shown.
A frame of the raw signal recorded by the camera during the testing of the AlRoom optic, as
captured when using both the LITMIS and tungsten ribbon sources, as well as the background
subtracted processed data, is shown in Fig. 11. A full video of the entire vertical scan of the
optic, for both sources, is provided in Visualization 1.
The signal, noise, and centroiding repeatability results across the five repeat deflectometry
measurements of all optics, using both the LITMIS slit and tungsten ribbon sources, are
summarized in Table 3. Please note that due to the lack of signal and the large noise in the
measurement of the Al150 surface with a tungsten ribbon, it was impossible to record a consistent
signal over anything more than a small portion of the UUT surface. Thus, these results were
omitted as the signal, noise, SNR, and centroiding error could not be calculated.
Both the LITMIS slit source and tungsten ribbon source were successfully used to test the
Glass1500 and AlRoom optics. In both test cases, the mean signal power recorded after reflection
from the optic was similar. The standard deviation across the five repeat measurements performed
for every optic using each source however was slightly larger for the tungsten ribbon as compared
to the LITMIS source. The LITMIS slit source was better able to reduce noise, with an average
background noise of 0.70 camera signal counts in the glass test case, as compared to 1.28
counts for the tungsten ribbon, and approximately 0.85 counts for the tests of the aluminum
blank, as compared to 4.74 counts for the tungsten ribbon. This directly impacts the SNR
of both test methods, with the LITMIS slit source achieving a 2 - 5 times larger SNR. The
centroiding repeatability over the five tests, determined by calculating the standard deviation of

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28675

Fig. 10. Five repeat measurements were obtained for every source configuration testing
every optic. The five repeat camera signals for one pixel imaging the aluminum blank at
room temperature during testing using the LITMIS source were plotted, along with the
average signal across the five measurements. For this test the mean peak signal recorded
was 21.84, with a standard deviation of 0.92, while the mean peak background noise signal
was 0.83, with a standard deviation of 0.30.

Fig. 11. The deflectometry measurement of the Aluminum blank had the Thermal-Eye
3500AS camera focused onto the UUT surface. The camera recorded an image of the UUT
every at every source stage scanning position. This process was done with both the LITMIS
slit source (left column) and tungsten ribbon source (right column), which resulted in a raw
data signal (top row). The background signal was then removed from the data, using signal
isolation for the LITMIS slit source and simple background subtraction for the tungsten
ribbon, resulting in a background removed processed signal (bottom row). For the full video
of the vertical scan, see Video 1.

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28676

Table 3. Deflectometry Signal and Reconstruction Statistics

Source

Optic

signalmean ± signalstd
(A.U.)

noisemean ± noisestd
(A.U.)

SNR

Centroiding
Error, δ mean
(scan step)

Tungsten Ribbon

Glass1500

4.68 ± 1.92

1.28 ± 0.44

3.66

1.26

LITMIS Slit

Glass1500

5.32 ± 0.94

0.70 ± 0.26

7.60

0.30

Tungsten Ribbon

AlRoom

22.68 ± 1.17

4.74 ± 0.27

4.78

1.00

LITMIS Slit

AlRoom

21.84 ± 0.92

0.85 ± 0.30

25.69

0.26

Tungsten Ribbon

Al150

Not Measurable

LITMIS Slit

Al150

18.44 ± 0.81

0.89 ± 0.27

20.71

0.27

the centroids, was consistently approximately a third of a scan step for the LITMIS source and
was approximately a full scan step for the tungsten ribbon source.
We acknowledge that the surface reconstruction results are in no way meant to reflect the
reconstruction accuracy of either source, as the reconstruction accuracy is related to several
system level effects and not the scope of the presented work. The performance and accuracy
of an infrared deflectometry system using a tungsten ribbon has been already confirmed and
published [14,19]. The significance of the LITMIS solution is demonstrated by observing and
comparing the repeatability and noise statistics of the traditional tungsten ribbon source and the
LITMIS source.
6.

Conclusion

While infrared deflectometry has been used to provide metrology of rough surfaces, there are
clear limitations in surface testing and reconstruction capabilities due to inherent characteristics
of a tungsten ribbon source. For precision fabrication and metrology, any uncertainty in the
spatial and temporal behavior of a source directly negatively impacts the reconstruction accuracy
and uncertainty. Additionally, due to testing being performed in the infrared region, there are
almost always significant background thermal radiation contributions, which may fluctuate over
time and further degrade results. We have instead created an integrating cavity source, which
emits long-wave infrared light uniformly from a precision machined exit slit, which we call
LITMIS. The temporal and spatial emission behavior is excellent for the source. Further, the
source is temporally modulated at up to 1 Hz, which allows not only for better signal isolation
from the background noise but can accommodate testing in an environment where background
thermal fluctuations are occurring.
A demonstration infrared deflectometry system using the new LITMIS slit source successfully
tested a diffuse ground glass optic as well as an aluminum blank. The source exhibited excellent
repeatability and significantly improved the SNR of the test, as compared to testing using a
traditional tungsten ribbon. Further, the LITMIS slit source allowed for testing a previously
unmeasurable aluminum blank while under thermal load, with the blank having been heated to
approximately 150 °C. This could enable in-situ testing of optics placed under thermal load to
observe surface behavior in extreme environment situations. We do not claim using the LITMIS
method is a superior test method to other metrology solutions. Instead, our goal is to expand the
library of usable infrared sources for deflectometry, thereby further expanding the metrology
options.
Acknowledgment
This research was made possible in part by the II-VI Foundation Block-Gift Program, the
Technology Research Initiative Fund Optics/Imaging Program, and the Friends of Tucson Optics

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28677

Endowed Scholarships in Optical Sciences. Additionally, the non-sequential light modeling and
analysis was made possible by the educational license for LightTools provided by Synopsys.
References
1. D. W. Kim, H. M. Martin, and J. H. Burge, “Calibration and optimization of computer-controlled optical surfacing
for large optics,” in Optical Manufacturing and Testing IX (International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2011),
8126, p. 812615.
2. M. Beier, S. Scheiding, A. Gebhardt, R. Loose, S. Risse, R. Eberhardt, and A. Tünnermann, “Fabrication of high
precision metallic freeform mirrors with magnetorheological finishing (MRF),” in Optifab 2013 (International Society
for Optics and Photonics, 2013), 8884, p. 88840S.
3. T. Blalock, K. Medicus, and J. D. Nelson, “Fabrication of freeform optics,” in Optical Manufacturing and Testing XI
(International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2015), 9575, p. 95750H.
4. D. W. Kim, C. Oh, A. Lowman, G. A. Smith, M. Aftab, and J. H. Burge, Proc. SPIE 9912, Advances in Optical and
Mechanical Technologies for Telescopes and Instrumentation II, 99120F (22 July 2016);
5. D. W. Kim, J. H. Burge, J. M. Davis, H. M. Martin, M. T. Tuell, L. R. Graves, and S. C. West, “New and improved
technology for manufacture of GMT primary mirror segments,” in Advances in Optical and Mechanical Technologies
for Telescopes and Instrumentation II (International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2016), 9912, p. 99120P.
6. P. Zhou, H. Martin, C. Zhao, and J. H. Burge, “Mapping distortion correction for GMT interferometric test,”
in Imaging and Applied Optics Technical Papers (2012), Paper OW3D.2 (Optical Society of America, 2012), p.
OW3D.2.
7. C. J. Oh, A. E. Lowman, G. A. Smith, P. Su, R. Huang, T. Su, D. Kim, C. Zhao, P. Zhou, and J. H. Burge, “Fabrication
and testing of 4.2 m off-axis aspheric primary mirror of Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope,” in Advances in Optical
and Mechanical Technologies for Telescopes and Instrumentation II (International Society for Optics and Photonics,
2016), 9912, p. 99120O.
8. M. B. Dubin, P. Su, and J. H. Burge, “Fizeau interferometer with spherical reference and CGH correction for
measuring large convex aspheres,” Proc. SPIE 7426, 74260S (2009).
9. R. Geyl, D. Bardon, R. Bourgois, N. Ferachoglou, E. Harel, and C. Couteret, “First steps in ELT optics polishing,” in
Fifth European Seminar on Precision Optics Manufacturing (International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2018),
10829, p. 1082904.
10. M. Dimmler, P. Barriga, M. Cayrel, F. Derie, A. Foerster, F. Gonte, J. C. Gonzalez, L. Jochum, N. Kornweibel, S.
Leveque, C. Lucuix, and L. Pettazzi, “Getting ready for serial production of the segmented 39-meter ELT primary:
status, challenges and strategies,” in Ground-Based and Airborne Telescopes VII (International Society for Optics
and Photonics, 2018), 10700, p. 1070043.
11. U. Mueller, “Production metrology design and calibration for TMT primary mirror fabrication used at multiple
manufacturing sites,” in Ground-Based and Airborne Telescopes VI (International Society for Optics and Photonics,
2016), 9906, p. 99060Z.
12. M. Sieger, F. Balluff, X. Wang, S.-S. Kim, L. Leidner, G. Gauglitz, and B. Mizaikoff, “On-chip integrated mid-infrared
GaAs/AlGaAs mach–zehnder interferometer,” Anal. Chem. 85(6), 3050–3052 (2013).
13. H. Yoo, G. A. Smith, C. J. Oh, A. E. Lowman, and M. Dubin, “Improvements in the scanning long-wave optical test
system,” in Optical Manufacturing and Testing XII (International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2018), 10742, p.
1074216.
14. T. Su, S. Wang, R. E. Parks, P. Su, and J. H. Burge, “Measuring rough optical surfaces using scanning long-wave
optical test system. 1. Principle and implementation,” Appl. Opt. 52(29), 7117–7126 (2013).
15. H. M. Martin, R. G. Allen, J. H. Burge, J. M. Davis, W. B. Davison, M. Johns, D. W. Kim, J. S. Kingsley, K. Law, R.
D. Lutz, P. A. Strittmatter, P. Su, M. T. Tuell, S. C. West, and P. Zhou, “Production of primary mirror segments for the
Giant Magellan Telescope,” in Advances in Optical and Mechanical Technologies for Telescopes and Instrumentation
(International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2014), 9151, p. 91510J.
16. L. R. Graves, H. Quach, H. Choi, and D. W. Kim, “Infinite deflectometry enabling 2pi-steradian measurement range,”
Opt. Express 27(5), 7602–7615 (2019).
17. W. H. Southwell, “Wave-front estimation from wave-front slope measurements,” J. Opt. Soc. Am. 70(8), 998–1006
(1980).
18. M. Aftab, J. H. Burge, G. A. Smith, L. Graves, C. Oh, and D. W. Kim, “Chebyshev gradient polynomials for high
resolution surface and wavefront reconstruction,” in Optical Manufacturing and Testing XII (International Society for
Optics and Photonics, 2018), 10742, p. 1074211.
19. T. Su, Asphercial metrology for non-specular surfaces with the Scanning Long-wave Optical Test System (2014).
20. D. W. Kim, T. Su, P. Su, C. Oh, L. Graves, and J. Burge, “Accurate and rapid IR metrology for the manufacture
of freeform optics” http://www.spie.org/newsroom/6015-accurate-and-rapid-ir-metrology-for-the-manufacture-offreeform-optics?SSO=1.
21. S. Höfer, J. Burke, and M. Heizmann, “Infrared deflectometry for the inspection of diffusely specular surfaces,” Adv.
Opt. Techn. 5(6), 377–387 (2016).

Research Article

Vol. 27, No. 20 / 30 September 2019 / Optics Express 28678

22. T. Hessler, O. Dubochet, M. Forster, M. Merschdorf, and P. Surbled, “Micro-machined, electrically modulated
thermal infrared source with black body characteristic,” in 8th International Conference and Exhibition on Infrared
Sensors & Systems (2004), 1.
23. T. Su, W. H. Park, R. E. Parks, P. Su, and J. H. Burge, “Scanning Long-wave Optical Test System: a new ground
optical surface slope test system,” in Optical Manufacturing and Testing IX (International Society for Optics and
Photonics, 2011), 8126, p. 81260E.
24. P. R. Bevington and D. K. Robinson, Data Reduction and Error Analysis for the Physical Sciences (McGraw-Hill,
2003).
25. J. S. Morgan, D. C. Slater, J. G. Timothy, and E. B. Jenkins, “Centroid position measurements and subpixel sensitivity
variations with the MAMA detector,” Appl. Opt. 28(6), 1178–1192 (1989).
26. J. C. De Vos, “A new determination of the emissivity of tungsten ribbon,” Physica 20(7-12), 690–714 (1954).
27. V. D. Dmitriev and G. K. Kholopov, “Radiant emissivity of tungsten in the infrared region of the spectrum,” J. Appl.
Spectrosc. 2(6), 315–320 (1965).
28. K. Ujihara, “Reflectivity of metals at high temperatures,” J. Appl. Phys. 43(5), 2376–2383 (1972).

