Measurement
Volume 43, Issue 10, December 2010, Pages 1305-1317

Review

Principles of Shape from Specular Reflection
J. Balzer a

, S. Werling b

Show more
Share

Cite

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2010.07.013
Get rights and content

Abstract
The reconstruction of (partially) specular object by means of deflectometric methods is a
challenging task. It has a long and fairly branched history within the metrology and
machine vision communities. We are not aware of any scientific publication surveying
the state of the art in a unifying manner and thus stimulating further research. This
contribution is intended to close this gap, bringing together prominent ideas from both
fields. In avoidance of unnecessary technicality, we lay out the basic theory, including all
known forward models of the reflection process. The corresponding inverse problem is
ill-posed, so that special emphasis is put on the question of regularization. We embed
some novel results on the uniqueness problem and the effectiveness of regularization
approaches. Also an overview of numerical methods related to Shape from Specular
Reflection is given. For the sake of completeness, we share some thoughts on the
construction of an actual measurement system and discuss a practical example.

Introduction
Specular surfaces are ubiquitous in industrial production and private households: They
occur on objects ranging from solder joints, lacquered automobile parts, and ceramics to
entertainment products among numerous others, see for example Fig. 1. Depending on

the degree of specularity, image features resulting from surface points itself are
superposed by virtual features from reflections of the environment. A perfect mirror is
quasi-invisible. This fact entails a significant challenge in deflectometry, a fairly general
term for the automated visual inspection of specular surfaces that was presumably
coined in the metrology community. Its significance to the metrology of free-form
surfaces is discussed by Savio et al. [37]. The notion Shape from Specular Reflection for a
special but highly interesting case of a deflectometric method is more prevalent in the
field of computer vision.
To the best of our knowledge, all modern developments root in a contribution by
Sanderson et al. [34]. The basics principle has remained the same until today: Points in a
calibrated scene are furnished by a unique code and captured in one or a sequence of
images, whereas the light path includes the unknown specular surface. Unlike with
classical triangulation techniques, first-rather than zero-order surface properties are
obtained. With no initial value for integration of the resulting gradient field, the
reconstruction problem is mathematically ill-posed. A great portion of research aims at
the resolution of this inherent ambiguity.
The intention of this paper is to give an overview of the state of the art in Shape from
Specular Reflection. The treatment of qualitative deflectometric approaches, which aim
at the detection of fabrication errors rather than a quantitative reconstruction, is not
included. Unlike the complementary survey [19], the present work is not designated to
be a comparison of literature and numerical methods therein. We hope it might rather
serve as a guide on the long way from basic theory to practical implementation.
References are supplied intermediately. All results will finally be wrapped up in Section
6, which presents an example of a path we in our opinion found to be optimal. Other
than that, the paper is outlined as follows: Different mathematical models of the
underlying physical process highlighting different aspects of the reconstruction problem
are reviewed in the following paragraphs. Thereupon, we turn to the key question of
regularization. In the description of the most common approaches, we differentiate
between purely specular surfaces and the case where a minimum of Lambertian
reflections is present. All of the previous findings have to be taken into account in Section
4 while devising a numerical algorithm. The following part is devoted to the technical
realization of a measurement system. We discuss the important issues of hardware
selection, calibration, and light source encoding before posing some questions for future
research in Section 7.

Section snippets
Modeling

Let us start with a few mathematical preliminaries: By ×, we denote the vector product,
by 〈·,·〉 the canonical scalar product, the latter equipping the Euclidean standard space
with the norm ∥·∥. Vectors x are printed boldface and italic. Those of unit length are
marked by an additional hat, i.e.
A point

, and

is the unit sphere in

.

shall possess the coordinate notation x = (x1, … , x3)⊤ with respect to the

standard basis

in Euclidean 3-space.…

Regularization
Clearly, the inherent ambiguities can only be resolved by the incorporation of additional
information. The course of action certainly depends on its amount which can be
extracted from the surface itself. While in presence of Lambertian behavior, classical
optical metrology methods suffice for a regularization, see Section 3.2, purely specular
surfaces require considerably more effort.…

Local methods
By the methods of the characteristics, the Cauchy problem for the quasilinear PDE (4a),
(4b) can be converted into a coupled system of two ordinary differential equations,
which is amenable to the standard Runge–Kutta differencing scheme for example. This
works quite well in a neighborhood of the seed point. From one perspective, the
integrator acting as a low pass filter seems convenient. However, since the noisecontaminated normal field will lack integrability, a Hodge decomposition will be…

Hardware selection
The construction of a deflectometric inspection system should be guided by best possible
resolution. What do we mean by resolution in this context? On the one hand, the lateral
resolution determines the scale on which two surface points remain distinguishable by
the sensor. On the other hand, we seek to maximize the angular resolution of detectable
surface orientations i.e. normal fields. The following considerations will all reflect the
experience that equally high sensitivities with respect…

Examples
Firstly, we considered a synthetic data set generated by a raytrace along the graph of
where

This is an ellipsoid with midpoint
and real ellipticity parameters a, b, and c. Where it intersects the
plane x3 = 0, it merges into a constant function. The pattern generator was selected to be a
subset of the plane orthogonal to e3 at some negative distance d from the origin. It
contained the optical center (0, 0,…

Open problems
In spite of the fact that over the past decade the field has reached a state of maturity,
there remains room for future research: The ambiguity in the solution of the
reconstruction problem has been a fundamental issue, and it seems to be common sense
by now that independent information or a-priori knowledge are crucial in resolving it.
Only little has been said about the quality of individual regularization approaches: For a
variety of surfaces, certain attempts might be in vain, cf. the…

Acknowledgment
The authors would like to thank J. Sander for committing the engine hood at no cost.…
Recommended articles

References (43)
B. Horn et al.

Determining optical flow – a retrospective
Artificial Intelligence (1993)
E. Savio et al.

Metrology of freeform shaped parts
CIRP Annals – Manufacturing Technology (2007)
J. Balzer, Regularisierung des Deflektometrieproblems – Grundlagen und Anwendung,
PhD thesis, Karlsruhe Institute of...
J. Balzer

Second-order domain derivative of normal-dependent boundary integrals
Journal of Evolution Equations (2010)
J. Balzer et al.

Deflektometrische Rekonstruktion spiegelnder Freiformflächen

tm – Technisches Messen (2007)
J. Balzer, S. Werling, J. Beyerer, Regularization of the deflectometry problem using
shading data, in: Proceedings of...
W. Bangerth et al.

deal.II — a general-purpose object-oriented finite element library
ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (2007)
T. Bonfort, P. Sturm, P. Gargallo, General specular surface triangulation, in: Proceedings of
the Asian Conference on...
J. Cantarella et al.

Vector calculus and the topology of domains in 3-space
American Mathematical Monthly (2002)
J. Chang, K. Lee, S. Lee, Multiview normal field integration using level set methods, in:
IEEE Conference on Computer...

View more references

Cited by (91)
Denoise method for Reflection Matrix Optical Coherence Tomography
2024, Optics Communications
Show abstract

Collimated phase measuring deflectometry
2024, Optics and Lasers in Engineering
Show abstract

Specular surface deformation measurement based on projected-speckle
deflectometry with digital image correlation
2023, Optics and Lasers in Engineering
Show abstract

Polynomial color compensation model with neural network solver for colorcoded fringe patterns in phase-measuring deflectometry
2023, Optics and Lasers in Engineering

Citation Excerpt :
…The reflection of the coding pattern on the screen from the surface of the test specimen is
captured by the camera. Sinusoidal fringe patterns are commonly used in PMD measurement
because they are insensitive to defocusing effect when the camera is focused on the test specimen
to maximize spatial resolution [1–3]. By analyzing the captured images of the test specimen
encoded with the sinusoidal fringe patterns, the phase, slope, and height data of the test specimen
can be retrieved.…

Show abstract

Transition imaging phase measuring deflectometry for high-precision
measurement of optical surfaces
2022, Measurement: Journal of the International Measurement Confederation
Citation Excerpt :
…Evidently, the screen and the SUT cannot be in-focus simultaneously with respect to the image
plane, i.e. there is a “Heisenberg uncertainty relationship” between the positions and normal
directions of the measured points [5,6]. It is common to focus on the SUT to guarantee the
precision of point positions [7,8], but this will make the screen defocused. Henceforth, the captured
image intensity is not a linear mapping to that of the correspondence screen pixel.…

Show abstract

Curved LCD based deflectometry method for specular surface measurement
2022, Optics and Lasers in Engineering
Citation Excerpt :
…The interferometry is of high accuracy, but the complicate operation and high cost limit its
widespread applications. Thus, the PMD is prevailing due to its simple principle, low cost, high
dynamic range and full-field measurement for specular objects measurement [7–10]. For the PMD
system, the accurate calibration is necessary and important owing that slope calculation is
sensitive to system errors.…

Show abstract

View all citing articles on Scopus
View full text
Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI
training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.
